Docker compose public availability (#190)
opencloud-eu/docs: docs/admin/20-getting-started/25-docker-compose-local.md

---
sidebar_position: 3
id: docker-compose-local
title: Docker Compose local
description: "🌟 Full-blown featureset including web office and full-text search."
---

## Guide for local installation
Spin up a temporary local instance of OpenCloud using **Docker Compose**.

## **Prerequisites:**
- **Linux**, **Mac** or **Windows** Subsystem for Linux [(WSL)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install)

> - [**Git**](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)

Reviewer: not necessarily, the file can be downloaded from GH too...

Author: I will let it in, because we need sometimes to install it before. Only to be safe ;)

Reviewer 2: I think it is a bit of overkill to clone the whole repo just for the dir. Maybe we need another "quick script" that people can call like `wget https://opencloud.eu/docker-composition` or so...
Out of scope of this PR tough

- [**Docker Compose**](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

---

###  1. Download

Download the `opencloud_full` folder (this folder contains a multi-file Docker Compose configuration):

```Shell
git clone https://github.com/opencloud-eu/opencloud.git
```

---

### 2. Start

cd into the Docker Compose configuration folder:

```Shell
cd opencloud/deployments/examples/opencloud_full
```

Start the deployment with Docker Compose:

```Shell
docker compose up -d
```

<img src={require("./img/quick-guide/quick-docker-compose-up.png").default} alt="Admin general" width="1920"/>

This starts all necessary containers in the background.

---

> ### 3. Add local domains to /etc/hosts 

Reviewer: ... or to your DNS server ...

Edit the /etc/hosts file and add the following entries for local access:

```
127.0.0.1       cloud.opencloud.test
127.0.0.1       collabora.opencloud.test
127.0.0.1       wopiserver.opencloud.test
```

Open [https://collabora.opencloud.test](https://collabora.opencloud.test) and accept the self-signed certificate. This step is needed as you can not accept the self-signed certificate if you try to open a .odt document from within the OpenCloud Web UI as Collabora is embedded via an iframe.

<img src={require("./img/quick-guide/collabora-accept-self-signed-cert.png").default} alt="Accept self signed certificate" width="1920"/>

---

### 4. Login

Login with your browser:
- [https://cloud.opencloud.test](https://cloud.opencloud.test)
- user: **admin**
- password: **admin**

<img src={require("./img/quick-guide/quick-login.png").default} alt="Admin general" width="1920"/>

### 5. Conclusion

Your OpenCloud server is now running and ready to use 🚀

--- 

### Troubleshooting

> If you encounter any issues or errors, try finding a solution here: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you encounter any issues or errors, you will find a solution here: 
```
